enemy types -

hunter - hunts in confined way path. can be killed with stage weapon.

stalker - intermittently stalks like scissorman. can't be killed.

murderer - hunts in mostly exhaustive path. can't be killed. only appears or goes away based on game event progression.

murderer (butt clencher variant) - like the other murderer, but this one starts slow but gains speed over straights.

when hiding, player fades to transparent and camera goes into first person view, meaning we don't have to have custom character hiding animations.

out of stalker view after time, goes back to originating spawn point, then disappears.

hunter tracks player by last seen while player not in sight.

holding V button switch eye side.

shift to toggle flash light.

hold down interact button for ten seconds to investigate (in a drawer, plays a sound like shuffling contents around during that time, or with a book, flipping pages).

when interacting, camera gets an additional mode where turning it doesn't  turn the character and it can only turn so far.

hostile furniture - after hiding in a piece of furniture or closet, once you step out, the door closes and can't be opened again.

you can kill hunters, but you have to find a one-use item to hit them with from behind first. item can't be used if hunter is aware of you (item icon has an X marked over it).

if enemy sees player in process of hiding, it will go to the thing the player is hiding in and interact with it, thus exposing player.

Stage Ideas -

1) Normal lighting, no enemies.

2) Dark + Flashlight, no enemies.

3) Normal lighting, Stalker only.

4) Normal lighting, Hunters only.

5) Dark + flashlight. Stalker is the only enemy on this stage.

6) Dark + flashlight. Hunters are the only enemies on this stage.

7) Normal lighting, Stalker + Hunters

8) Dark + Flashlight, Stalker + Hunters

Progression Types -

A) Investigate POIs. Find a hidden key to leave.

B) Kill Hunter. Investigate its corpse to find key to leave.

Intro Stage - 1A, 2A. Find your keys before leaving the house ("Need to drive and don't want to lock myself out.") Upon finding your keys, you realize you also need to find your wallet, then suddenly a dry lightning flashes and the power goes out. Fortunately there's a small flash light on your keychain. Upon finding your wallet in the dark, leave the house / stage. "God I'm exhausted... I better get some coffee on the way."

tree + vol fog through left window to liven up residence scene + moths outside window?

Narrative Slides - Car crash on a long country road. Car is in a ditch, you don't remember the crash. You must've fallen asleep at the wheel. You search the car for your cell phone - can't find it. Might have been flung out the broken windshield. Look for the cell phone outside the car. Find cell phone - it's broken. The only thing you see is an abandoned, dilapidated plantation-style farm house. It's 4AM. You wait an hour for another car to pass by. None do. Approach the house.

Stage 1 - 2A - Enter dilapidated house. Darkness, no electricity.  You hear a sound, like a child's voice. "Hello? Is anyone here? Are you alone?" You hear nothing more. Find a door downstairs, locked. Find a key - enter.

Stage 2 - 6A - You hear a little girl's voice... "He wants to play with you...". You hear a loud bang. "Hello? Where are you? Are you okay?" You hear a gurgling growl. If the player tries to leave, notice door is locked behind them. No way to kill hunter; need to rummage through POIs in order to find key to next area.

Stage 3 - 5A - "We're going to eat you...!" The little girl's voice again. Stalker appears! Possible to hide for it to go away. When Stalker goes away, girl whispers "Coward..."

...

Stage Final - 8B

Main Plot Line -

The main character slowly discovers that she is a demon.

The bad ending has her become a demon form.

The good ending she becomes an angel, understanding that a mere three-dimensional view is not sufficient to see the difference between what is an angel and a demon.

Asset Notes:

Abandoned Mansion texture fix-ups -

R <- G
G <- B
B <- R

deexponentiate roughness (red) with Paint.NET curve editor.

Camera Controls -

forward-paced camera control where  eye rotates initially ahead of character forward to quicken 'glancing' when turning and to show off a bit more of the player character model.

Eye zoom in when in investigation results phase.

MISC

death ideas -

when a normal enemy kills you, it's not a gore fest. instead what happens is you get the normal attack and blood splat on wall(s), then camera frames your face and witnesses the life drain from your eyes / expression, then fade to black. when being killed by the stalker, the same, but there's an additional fade back in from black with your dead-eyed face framed looking up from the floor. every second, you see the floor behind your head move upward along with a sliding sound; your lifeless body being dragged somewhere. after three slow steps of dragging you, the view fades back to black.

true horror is about loss
about things you can't get back
and most of all
because it was your own fault.
slide...
slide...
slide...

Animus

Animus - the masculine shadow called forth to save her when she is all alone. 
the love of her father, the spirit of her brother, the feeling of the masculine heart that walks with her even when she walks alone. 
as long as she feels their transcendent love, she is never truly alone.
What  did i  get myself into?
why did i have to be so stupid?...
hey
it's not  about what you get  yourself into... 
it's what you can get yourself out of.
I did this to myself. There's no way out.
You and me,
bryanedds — Today at 11:11 PM
we're in this  together  now
none of them can stop  us now.
you and me,
if the world should  break in two
until the very  end of me
until the very end of you.
forever and ever i am a part of you
nothing else is anything.
bryanedds — Today at 11:27 PM
Subtextually, this story is about the archetypal bond between the feminine and the masculine. The feminine heart is full when it holds the shape of the platonic masculine. Emptiness is a heart full of childish wants. A small selfish gesture on the part of a young and otherwise devoted girl makes ripples on a very, very large pond. Only the strength she finds in the memory of her deceased brother can manifest within her the courage she needs to save herself. 
you and me
we're in this together now
none of them can stop us now.
in the most desperate moments, she takes on the personality of her  brother.
channeling his arrogant, free-spirit persona, she becomes free to confront the true depths of the evil facing her. 
he will always be there to protect her
as long as she keeps his noble nature alive in her heart

having something small in the scene with just a bit of motion (like the small spinning table fan in RE7) can trick the player into thinking something dangerous is near - then realize it was just a harmless prop. that's effective for horror for two reasons - creates sudden tension and also make next encounter with danger more surprising.

a shallow time element i.e. doesn't really affect gameplay/progression but still part of the experience. time is determined by gameplay progress (including physical checkpoints) and can be associated with events like stalker appearance. also determines windowed room lighting making it at least slightly different each time room is entered. rendering complications can be minimised by keeping time still in such rooms.

lucid / disorienting experience of time in a scenario